.Dd 9/8/13               \" DATE 
.Dt UCVM 1      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os Linux
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm basin_query
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl h
.Op Fl f Ar config-file
.Op Fl m Ar model
.Op Fl v Ar vs-threshold
.Op Fl p Ar usermap
.Op Fl z Ar zmin,zmax
.Op Fl d Ar max-depth
.Op Fl i Ar interval
< file.in
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
The command
.Nm
allows you to retrieve the depth at which 
.Ar vs-threshold
is first crossed, crossed 2nd time or last crossed if differ from the first crossing. By default,
.Ar vs-threshold
is set to be 1000m/s, but that can easily be changed.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width -indent 
Common Paramters
.It Fl f
Location of the UCVM configuration file. Typically, this is ../conf/ucvm.conf.
.It Fl m
Model to query. Usually
.Ar model
is either cvms, cvmh, cvmsi, or cencal.
.It Fl v
Vs threshold to use. By default this is 1000m/s, but other common values include 2500m/s and 3000m/s.
.El
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width -indent 
Less Used Parameters
.It Fl p
Custom vs30 and elevation map location.
.It Fl z
Custom depth range for GTL/crust interpolation. 
.It Fl d
Maximum depth, in meters, to search. Default is 15000m.
.It Fl i
Interval, in meters, go go by when searching for the depth. Default is 20m. So
.Nm
will get the Vs value at 0m, 20m, 40m, and so on.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLE
.Pp                      \" Inserts a space
.Nm
-f ../conf/ucvm.conf -m cvms -v 2500
.Pp
	Input: -118 34 Ctrl-D
.Pp
	Output: -118.0000    34.0000   4780.000   4780.000   4780.000
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.Xr ucvm_query 1
