.Dd 9/8/13               \" DATE 
.Dt UCVM 1      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os Linux
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm ucvm2etree-extract-MPI
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl h
.Fl f 
.Ar config
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
Notice: This command is intended to be run as a MPI job (e.g. mpirun ./ucvm-extract-MPI).
Please do not attempt to run it as a regular process.

The command
.Nm
extracts components of an e-tree from the specifications in a given configuration file, 
.Ar config .

Specifically, it divides the etree region into C columns for extraction. This is an 
embarrassingly parallel operation. A dispatcher (rank 0) farms out each column to a 
worker in a pool of N cores for extraction. Each worker queries UCVM for the points in 
its column and writes a flat-file formatted etree. After program execution, there are N 
sub-etree files, each locally unsorted. The extractor must be run on 2^Y + 1 cores where 
Y>0 and (2^Y) < C. The output flat file format is a list of octants(24 byte addr, 16 byte 
key, 12 byte payload) in arbitrary Z-order.

Since the number of points in a column depends on the minimum Vs values within that 
column, some columns will have high octant counts and others will have very low octant 
counts. Having sub-etrees that vary greatly in size is not optimal for the sorting 
operations that follow, so ucvm2etree-extract-MPI implements a simple octant balancing 
mechanism. When a worker has extracted more than X octants (the default 16M octants), 
it reports to the dispatcher that it cannot extract any more columns and terminates. 
This strategy approximately balances the sub-etrees so that they may be loaded into 
memory by ucvm2etree-sort-MPI. In the case of very large extractions where the 
dispatcher reports that all workers have reported they are full yet columns remain to 
be extracted, increase the job size by a factor of 2 until there is room for all the 
columns.
.Pp
You would typically run this command, followed by 
.Nm ucvm2etree-sort-MPI 
and 
.Nm ucvm2etree-merge-MPI . 
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width -indent 
.It Fl h
Displays the help message.
.It Fl f
Uses configuration file, 
.Ar config .
.El
.Sh EXAMPLE
mpirun -np 768 
.Nm
-f ./ucvm2etree_example.conf
.Pp
Where ucvm2etree_example.conf is:
.Pp
# Domain corners coordinates (clockwise, degrees):

proj=geo-bilinear 
.br
lon_0=-119.288842
.br
lat_0=34.120549

lon_1=-118.354016
.br
lat_1=35.061096

lon_2=-116.846030
.br
lat_2=34.025873

lon_3=-117.780976
.br
lat_3=33.096503

# Domain dimensions (meters):
.br
x-size=180000.0000
.br
y-size=135000.0000
.br
z-size=61875.0000

# Blocks partition parameters:
.br
nx=32
.br
ny=24

# Max freq, points per wavelength, Vs min
.br
max_freq=0.5
.br
ppwl=4.0
.br
vs_min=200.0

# Max allowed size of octants in meters
.br
max_octsize=10000.0

# Etree parameters and info
.br
title=ChinoHills_0.5Hz_200ms
.br
author=D_Gill
.br
date=05/2011
.br
outputfile=./cmu_cvmh_chino_0.5hz_200ms.e
.br
format=etree

# UCVM parameters
.br
ucvmstr=cvms
.br
ucvm_interp_zrange=0.0,350.0
.br
ucvmconf=../../conf/kraken/ucvm.conf

# Scratch
.br
scratch=/lustre/scratch/scecdave/scratch

#
.br
# Buffering parameters used by MPI version only
.br
#
.br
# Etree buffer size in MB
.br
buf_etree_cache=128
.br
# Max octants to buffer for flat file during extraction
.br
buf_extract_mem_max_oct=4194304
.br
# Max octants to save in flat file before reporting full during extraction
.br
buf_extract_ffile_max_oct=16000000
.br
# Max octants to read from input flat file during sorting
.br
buf_sort_ffile_max_oct=20000000
.br
# Minimum number of octants between reports during merging
.br
buf_merge_report_min_oct=10000000
.br
# MPI send/recv octant buffer size during merging
.br
buf_merge_sendrecv_buf_oct=4096
.br
# Etree read/write octant buffer size during merging
.br
buf_merge_io_buf_oct=4194304
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.Xr ucvm2etree-sort-MPI 1 ,
.Xr ucvm2etree-merge-MPI 1 ,
.Xr ucvm2etree 1