.Dd 9/8/13               \" DATE 
.Dt UCVM 1      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os Linux
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm ucvm_query
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl h
.Op Fl f Ar config
.Op Fl m Ar model
.Op Fl c Ar coordtype
.Op Fl p Ar map
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl z Ar zmin,zmax
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
The command
.Nm
queries an installed velocity model to retreive its material properties at a particular 
latitude and longitude.
.Pp
Any set of crustal and GTL velocity models may be selected and queried in order of 
preference. Points may be queried by (lon,lat,dep) or (lon,lat,elev) and the coordinate 
conversions for a particular model are handled transparently. 
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width -indent 
Common Paramters
.It Fl h
Displays the help message.
.It Fl f
Location of the configuration file, 
.Ar config ,
that tells the program which velocity models are installed.
.It Fl m
A comma-separated list of models to query.
.El
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width -indent
Less Used Parameters
.It Fl c
Z-coordinate mode. Geo-depth (default) is "gd", but queries can also be done by elevation
as specified by "ge".
.It Fl p
User-defined map of vs30 and elevation data.
.It Fl v
Display model version information only.
.It Fl z
Specifies depth range for gtl/crust interpolation.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLE
.Nm
-f ../conf/ucvm.conf -m cvms
.Pp
Input format is:
.br
	lon lat Z

Output format is:
.br
	lon lat Z surf vs30 crustal cr_vp cr_vs cr_rho gtl gtl_vp gtl_vs gtl_rho cmb_algo cmb_vp cmb_vs cmb_rho

If running in interactive mode, please use Ctrl-D to end the input.
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.Xr basin_query 1