.Dd 9/8/13               \" DATE 
.Dt UCVM 1      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os Linux
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm ucvm2mesh-mpi
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl h
.Fl f 
.Ar config
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
Notice: 
.Nm
is meant to be run as a MPI job, not as a standalone executable.

The command
.Nm
generates a mesh in either IJK-12, IJK-20, IJK-32, or SORD format. Unlike its serial version,
.Nm ucvm2mesh
this command can use multiple cores to generate the mesh.
It does so by reading in the specifications in a given configuration file, 
.Ar config .
.Pp
This mesh can then be used in forward 3D wave propagation simulation software such
as AWP-ODC.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width -indent 
.It Fl h
Displays the help message.
.It Fl f
Uses configuration file, 
.Ar config .
.El
.Sh EXAMPLE
mpirun -np [procs]
.Nm
-f ./ucvm2mesh_example.conf
.Pp
Where ucvm2mesh_example.conf is:
.Pp
# List of CVMs to query
.br
ucvmlist=cvmh

# UCVM conf file
.br
ucvmconf=../conf/kraken/ucvm.conf

# Gridding cell centered or vertex
.br
gridtype=CENTER

# Spacing of cells
.br
spacing=2000.0

# Projection
.br
proj=+proj=utm +datum=WGS84 +zone=11
.br
rot=-40.0
.br
x0=-122.3
.br
y0=34.7835
.br
z0=0.0

# Number of cells along each dim
.br
nx=384
.br
ny=248
.br
nz=25

# Partitioning of grid among processors
.br
px=2
.br
py=2
.br
pz=5

# Vs/Vp minimum
.br
vp_min=0
.br
vs_min=0

# Mesh and grid files, format
.br
meshfile=/lustre/scratch/user/mesh_cvmh_ijk12_2000m.media
.br
gridfile=/lustre/scratch/user/mesh_cvmh_ijk12_2000m.grid
.br
meshtype=IJK-12

# Location of scratch dir
.br
scratch=/lustre/scratch/user/scratch
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.Xr ucvm2mesh 1