.Dd 9/8/13               \" DATE 
.Dt UCVM 1      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os Linux
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm ucvm2etree-sort-MPI
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl h
.Fl f 
.Ar config
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
Notice: This command is intended to be run as a MPI job (e.g. mpirun ./ucvm-sort-MPI).
Please do not attempt to run it as a regular process.

The command
.Nm
sorts the extracted components of an e-tree from the
.Nm ucvm2etree-extract-MPI
command. It does so by reading in the specifications in a given configuration file, 
.Ar config .

Specifically, it sorts the sub-etrees produced by ucvm2etree-extract-MPI so that 
each file is in local pre-order (Z-order). Again, the is an embarrassingly parallel 
operation. Each rank in the job reads in one of the sub-etrees produced by the previous 
program, sorts the octants in Z-order, and writes the sorted octants to a new sub-etree. 
The sorter must be run on 2^Y cores where Y>0. The worker pool must be large enough to 
allow each worker to load all the octants from its assigned file into memory. By default, 
this octant limit is 20M octants. If a rank reports that the size of the sub-etree 
exceeds memory capacity, the 20M buffer size constant may be increased if memory allows, 
or alternatively, cvmbycols-extract-MPI may be rerun with a larger job size to reduce 
the number of octants per file.
.Pp
You would typically run this command after 
.Nm ucvm2etree-extract-MPI 
and before
.Nm ucvm2etree-merge-MPI . 
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width -indent 
.It Fl h
Displays the help message.
.It Fl f
Uses configuration file, 
.Ar config .
.El
.Sh EXAMPLE
mpirun -np 768 
.Nm
-f ./ucvm2etree_example.conf
.Pp
Where ucvm2etree_example.conf is:
.Pp
# Domain corners coordinates (clockwise, degrees):

proj=geo-bilinear 
.br
lon_0=-119.288842
.br
lat_0=34.120549

lon_1=-118.354016
.br
lat_1=35.061096

lon_2=-116.846030
.br
lat_2=34.025873

lon_3=-117.780976
.br
lat_3=33.096503

# Domain dimensions (meters):
.br
x-size=180000.0000
.br
y-size=135000.0000
.br
z-size=61875.0000

# Blocks partition parameters:
.br
nx=32
.br
ny=24

# Max freq, points per wavelength, Vs min
.br
max_freq=0.5
.br
ppwl=4.0
.br
vs_min=200.0

# Max allowed size of octants in meters
.br
max_octsize=10000.0

# Etree parameters and info
.br
title=ChinoHills_0.5Hz_200ms
.br
author=D_Gill
.br
date=05/2011
.br
outputfile=./cmu_cvmh_chino_0.5hz_200ms.e
.br
format=etree

# UCVM parameters
.br
ucvmstr=cvms
.br
ucvm_interp_zrange=0.0,350.0
.br
ucvmconf=../../conf/kraken/ucvm.conf

# Scratch
.br
scratch=/lustre/scratch/scecdave/scratch

#
.br
# Buffering parameters used by MPI version only
.br
#
.br
# Etree buffer size in MB
.br
buf_etree_cache=128
.br
# Max octants to buffer for flat file during extraction
.br
buf_extract_mem_max_oct=4194304
.br
# Max octants to save in flat file before reporting full during extraction
.br
buf_extract_ffile_max_oct=16000000
.br
# Max octants to read from input flat file during sorting
.br
buf_sort_ffile_max_oct=20000000
.br
# Minimum number of octants between reports during merging
.br
buf_merge_report_min_oct=10000000
.br
# MPI send/recv octant buffer size during merging
.br
buf_merge_sendrecv_buf_oct=4096
.br
# Etree read/write octant buffer size during merging
.br
buf_merge_io_buf_oct=4194304
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.Xr ucvm2etree-sort-MPI 1 ,
.Xr ucvm2etree-merge-MPI 1 ,
.Xr ucvm2etree 1