.Dd 9/8/13               \" DATE 
.Dt UCVM 1      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os Linux
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm ucvm2etree-merge-MPI
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl h
.Fl f 
.Ar config
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
Notice: This command is intended to be run as a MPI job (e.g. mpirun ./ucvm-merge-MPI).
Please do not attempt to run it as a regular process.

The command
.Nm
merges the sorted components of an e-tree from the
.Nm ucvm2etree-sort-MPI
command. It does so by reading in the specifications in a given configuration file, 
.Ar config .

Specifically, it merges N locally sorted etrees in flat file format into a final, 
compacted etree. This is essentially a merge sort on the keys from the addresses read 
from the local files. The cores at the lowest level of the merge tree each read in 
octants from two flat files in pre-order, merge sort the two sets of addresses, then 
pass the locally sorted list of addresses to a parent node for additional merging. This 
proceeds until the points rise to rank 1 which has a completely sorted list of etree 
addresses. Rank 0 takes this sorted list and performs a transactional append on the final 
Etree. 
.Pp
The merger must be run on 2^N cores. The program reads in input files that are in 
flat file format. In can output a merged Etree in either Etree format or flat file 
format. Although, due to space considerations, it strips the output flat file format 
to a pre-order list ot octants(16 byte key, 12 byte payload). The missing addr field is
redundant and can be regenerated from the key field.
.Pp
You would typically run this command after 
.Nm ucvm2etree-extract-MPI 
and
.Nm ucvm2etree-merge-MPI . 
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width -indent 
.It Fl h
Displays the help message.
.It Fl f
Uses configuration file, 
.Ar config .
.El
.Sh EXAMPLE
mpirun -np 768 
.Nm
-f ./ucvm2etree_example.conf
.Pp
Where ucvm2etree_example.conf is:
.Pp
# Domain corners coordinates (clockwise, degrees):

proj=geo-bilinear 
.br
lon_0=-119.288842
.br
lat_0=34.120549

lon_1=-118.354016
.br
lat_1=35.061096

lon_2=-116.846030
.br
lat_2=34.025873

lon_3=-117.780976
.br
lat_3=33.096503

# Domain dimensions (meters):
.br
x-size=180000.0000
.br
y-size=135000.0000
.br
z-size=61875.0000

# Blocks partition parameters:
.br
nx=32
.br
ny=24

# Max freq, points per wavelength, Vs min
.br
max_freq=0.5
.br
ppwl=4.0
.br
vs_min=200.0

# Max allowed size of octants in meters
.br
max_octsize=10000.0

# Etree parameters and info
.br
title=ChinoHills_0.5Hz_200ms
.br
author=D_Gill
.br
date=05/2011
.br
outputfile=./cmu_cvmh_chino_0.5hz_200ms.e
.br
format=etree

# UCVM parameters
.br
ucvmstr=cvms
.br
ucvm_interp_zrange=0.0,350.0
.br
ucvmconf=../../conf/kraken/ucvm.conf

# Scratch
.br
scratch=/lustre/scratch/scecdave/scratch

#
.br
# Buffering parameters used by MPI version only
.br
#
.br
# Etree buffer size in MB
.br
buf_etree_cache=128
.br
# Max octants to buffer for flat file during extraction
.br
buf_extract_mem_max_oct=4194304
.br
# Max octants to save in flat file before reporting full during extraction
.br
buf_extract_ffile_max_oct=16000000
.br
# Max octants to read from input flat file during sorting
.br
buf_sort_ffile_max_oct=20000000
.br
# Minimum number of octants between reports during merging
.br
buf_merge_report_min_oct=10000000
.br
# MPI send/recv octant buffer size during merging
.br
buf_merge_sendrecv_buf_oct=4096
.br
# Etree read/write octant buffer size during merging
.br
buf_merge_io_buf_oct=4194304
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.Xr ucvm2etree-extract-MPI 1 ,
.Xr ucvm2etree-sort-MPI 1 ,
.Xr ucvm2etree 1